<h2 style='pointer-events: none;'>Predictions in Ungauged Basins(PUB)</h2>

&emsp;&emsp;The current method of predictions in ungauged basins is essentially regression, which involves using features other than hydrological models in the sample as independent variables and using the hydrological model parameters of the sample as dependent variables to model . After induction, the steps for building a regression model can be divided into:
1. **feature engineering**:to construct as many features as possible
2. **regresssion:mathematical**:physical, or statistical methods (machine learning)

&emsp;&emsp;We can imagine all the samples as a table, with each row representing a sample (actually a watershed) and each column representing a feature of the sample. Among them, hydrological model parameters are the features of the sample, and of course, there are other features. Our goal is actually to use other columns to regress the hydrological model parameters. So the essence of feature engineering is actually to first add as many columns as possible to this table, and then filter out the most suitable columns.

&emsp;&emsp;For a better understanding, let's first select one sample from more than n samples (watersheds) and call it the Xin'an River Basin. Each subsequent method will use this Xin'an River Basin as an example. Let's take a look at this sample from the Xin'an River Basin first. The current columns should include the sample features shown in the above figure.
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>1.Spatial proximity method</h3>

* **feature engineering**:Firstly, define a distance formula to represent the spatial distance between watersheds. Note that the longitude and latitude of each watershed should be included in a known large table. Then, we can obtain the distance between the Xin'an River Basin and other watersheds. This step is to select the watersheds that we believe are closer to the Xin'an River Basin. So how to choose? Determine a threshold through subjective or objective methods, beyond which I believe it is relatively close. After obtaining these watersheds, I will use the hydrological model parameters of these watersheds as other columns
* **regresssion**:Use the newly obtained columns above as independent variables and the hydrological model parameters of the previous samples as dependent variables for regression
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>2.Similarity method for watershed characteristics</h3>

&emsp;&emsp;Just like the above, replacing that distance with watershed features is a constructed indicator. At this point, the evaluation method or something is used to construct this indicator, and the composition of the indicator is very important
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>3.Similar watershed zoning method</h3>

&emsp;&emsp;This method suggests that a hydrological model can describe a type of watershed through certain parameter rules (such as using only one set of parameters), and this assumption is actually quite bold
* **feature engineering**：Build as many indicators as possible
* **regresssion**：In fact, this is not regression, but classification. However, classification is also a special type of regression. The NSE of multiple watersheds can be used as the objective function to calibrate the hydrological model in some way (such as taking a mean), and the classified areas will all use this set of model parameters.
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>4.Prior hypothesis method</h3>

&emsp;&emsp;This method currently appears to be the most promising and factual basis, proposing a hypothesis: there is a linear relationship between the hydrological model parameters of the Xin'an River Basin and other basin model parameters (in fact, other relationships are also acceptable here, but it is not easy to calibrate, as you will know later), and then the coefficient of this linear relationship is used as a parameter for the entire large basin to calibrate the runoff of the outlet of the large basin
* **regresssion**：when we regressed the hydrological model parameters earlier, we assumed that the hydrological model parameters predicted by the regression model were closest to the hydrological model parameters determined by the measured data ratio; But in fact, what we are most concerned about is the accuracy of the runoff process predicted by this set of parameters, so this method cleverly makes the objective function of the regression model closer to our ultimate goal - prediction accuracy
