<h2 style='pointer-events: none;'>Scientific Writing Tips for Non-Native Speakers of English</h2>
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>1. Minimize subject-verb-object sentences</h3>

Sentences written with the subject first, followed by the verb, and then the object, are easier for the English-speaking reader to comprehend. Cite a case where the subject-verb-object sentence structure is used in the following sentence:
>Salt pans *form* in areas infrequently flooded by tides.

Here, the subject is salt pans, the verb is form, and the object is in areas infrequently flooded by tides.In some languages, though, the subject and verb may be far apart in a sentence. But when there are many intervening words and clauses between subject and verb, the English speaker must work harder to grasp the information. For example, consider this sentence:
>The effects of sea-level rise on coastal areas such as erosion, flooding,  saltwater intrusion, changes in plant and animal communities, and displacement of human populations were examined in this paper.

Although the sentence is understandable and grammatically correct, the reader struggles a bit to grasp what it is saying because the subject *effects* and the verb *were examined* are so far apart. The sentence is easier to understand when the subject and verb are closer together:
>In this paper, we examined five effects of sea-level rise on coastal areas: erosion, flooding, saltwater intrusion, changes in plant and animal communities, and displacement of human populations.

This sentence is easier to comprehend because we first read *five effects of sea-level rise on coastal areas* were *examined*, then we get the list of those five effects.

Separation of subject and verb may seem to be a minor cognitive burden for a reader. For a single sentence, it is minor. But if every sentence in your paper makes the reader work a bit harder, it adds up. They may tire or just stop reading. Does this mean you should always put subject and verb close together? No, a few intervening words are fine. For example, the following sentence is easy to understand:
>The concentration of CO<sub>2</sub> in the atmosphere has been increasing since 1800.

But in general, it's a good idea to try to keep subject and verb as close together as possible to minimize the cognitive burden on the reader.
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>2. Put main subject in the topic position in the sentence</h3>

What your sentence is about needs to be in the topic position. Readers of English expect that whatever is mentioned first in a sentence is the topic of the sentence. Consider these two sentences:
>Wood-boring beetles cause light gaps in the forest canopy by killing branches and trees.

>Light gaps form in the forest canopy when branches and entire trees are killed by wood-boring beetles.

The first sentence tells the reader that the topic is wood-boring beetles or insects. The second one suggests the topic is light gap formation or forest canopy. if your main topic is focused on forest structure, the second sentence is better. If your main topic is about the beetles, the first sentence is better.
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>3. Put old information first and new </h3>

The idea here is to link sentences in a passage in a way that promotes Coherence and Cohesion. Here are two passages that illustrate this point. I've highlighted the old information in blue and new information in red.
>Halophytes are plants that can grow in saltwater.
:red[Salt stress is avoided or tolerated through plant adaptations] :blue[to a salty environment]. :red[Exclusion of salts by the roots,
excretion of salts from salt glands in the leaves, and
dilution of salts by increased water content] are some examples of :blue[adaptation strategies].

This passage sounds awkward because the second and third sentences put the new information first. Here is a revision:
>Halophytes are plants that can grow in saltwater.
:blue[Their ability to inhabit salty environments] is the result of :red[plant adaptations to avoid or tolerate salt stress]. Examples of :blue[adaptation strategies] include :red[exclusion of salts by the roots, excretion of salts from salt glands in the leaves, and dilution of salts by increased water content].

The second passage flows better because the structure of the second and third sentences presents the old information first before asking the reader to consider new information.
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>4. Put what your paragraph is about in the topic sentence.</h3>

In English, the first sentence in the paragraph identifies the topic of the passage. The middle sentences provide details about the topic, and the concluding sentence summarizes the point of the paragraph and prepares the reader for the next paragraph. Everything written in the paragraph should relate to the topic introduced in the opening statement in some way. Here is an example of a paragraph that follows this structure:
>Halophytes are plants that can grow in saltwater. Their ability to inhabit salty environments is the result of plant adaptations to avoid or tolerate salt stress. Examples of adaptation strategies include exclusion of salts by the roots, excretion of salts from salt glands in the leaves, and dilution of salts by increased water content. Some adaptation strategies are more effective than others, leading to differences among halophytic species in their overall tolerance of salt stress. Species differences in salt tolerance interact with spatial variation in soil salinity to cause distinct patterns of plant distribution in coastal areas.
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>5. Know when to use passive vs. active voice.</h3>

More journals these days are encouraging use active voice, but many scientists are still being taught to write solely in passive voice. So it's important to know the difference  between  active and passive voice and when to use them. In passive voice the subject of the sentences is acted upon by the verb:
>**Passive**: Seedling :red[growth was increased] by fertilization with nitrogen.

Passive construction has been the traditional choice in scientific writing because it conveys objectivity, but it can also sound robotic or stilted. In active voice the subject is doing the action expressed in the verb. Active voice is usually clearer, more direct, and requires fewer words:
>**Active**: :red[Fertilization] with nitrogen :red[increased] seedling growth.

Use of active voice can enliven your writing and make your material more readable. Use first person active voice sparingly, however, because it puts the focus on the researcher and what they were doing instead of the science:
> **First Person Active**: red:[We collected] plants from the field site for use in a greenhouse study. :red[We processed] soil samples within 24 hours of collection. We found that CO<sub>2</sub> treatment increased plant growth by 20 percent.

A lot of sentences written this way becomes repetitive. Use of passive voice may be preferable in the description of methods. Look at paper in your target journal to see how they use passive and active voice and follow their example.
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>6. Use transitions to improve narrative flow.</h3>

Use transitions to connect sentences and paragraphs. Transitional words, phrases and sentences aid in creating logical flow in a passage. Here are a couple of examples of transitions highlighted in red:
>Decay rates of leaves varies with environmental factors such as flooding. :red[In addition] to external conditions, leaf chemistry also affects decay rates., internal factors such as leaf nutrient or lignin content led to different decay rates among tree species.

>Several studies have documented hurricane-induced sedimentation in coastal marshes. :red[For example], Hurricanes Katrina and Rita caused an average deposition of 5 cm in wetlands of Louisiana and Texas.

More examples of transitions are covered in this [video](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6peMARwvhH4) 
<h3 style='pointer-events: none;'>7. Use correct verbs to convey the strength of your claim</h3>

>**Weak**: Our results :red[indicate/suggest/imply] that nurse plants facilitate seedling establishment and growth.

>**Strong**: Our results :red[show/confirm/clarify] that nurse plants facilitate tree seedling establishment and growth.

The first version uses a weak verb to show some uncertainty in the results. The second version is stronger. Depending on the strength of your data, select the appropriate verb.